README.md, before:

# Agent Skills

PRB's collection of AI agent skills. Designed to work across agents, but primarily built for [Claude Code](https://claude.com/product/claude-code) and [Codex](https://github.com/openai/codex).

## Installation

```sh
npx skills add PaulRBerg/agent-skills
```

## Skills

| Skill           | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| biome-js        | BiomeJS linting/formatting guidance      |
| bump-release    | Release workflow with changelog, tagging |
| code-polish     | Combined simplification and review       |
| code-review     | Expert code review                       |
| cli-gh          | GitHub CLI operations                    |
| cli-just        | Just command runner guidance             |
| cli-sentry      | Sentry CLI issue management              |
| code-simplify   | Code simplification and refactoring      |
| commit          | Git commit with conventional commits     |
| delayed-command | Wait and execute bash command            |
| ls-lint         | Directory/filename linting               |
| md-docs         | Markdown documentation management        |
| bump-deps       | Node.js dependency updates               |
| openclaw        | OpenClaw CLI guidance                    |
| oracle-codex    | Codex oracle for planning                |
| oss             | OSS contribution workflows               |
| refine-prompt   | LLM prompt optimization                  |
| work            | End-to-end task implementation           |

## SKILL.md Frontmatter Guide

> [!NOTE]
> Full reference: [Claude Code Skills docs](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills)

### Invocation Control

These fields control who can invoke a skill — the user, Claude, or both:

| Field                      | Type      | Default | Effect                                                                            | Use when…                                                                        |
| -------------------------- | --------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user-invocable`           | `boolean` | `true`  | Controls visibility in the `/` slash-command menu                                 | Set to `false` for background-knowledge skills Claude should auto-load silently  |
| `disable-model-invocation` | `boolean` | `false` | Prevents Claude from auto-loading the skill; removes its description from context | Set to `true` for side-effect workflows you trigger manually (deploy, commit, …) |

Combined behavior:

| Frontmatter                      | `/` menu | Claude auto-invokes | Description in context |
| -------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------- | ---------------------- |
| _(defaults)_                     | Yes      | Yes                 | Yes                    |
| `disable-model-invocation: true` | Yes      | No                  | No                     |
| `user-invocable: false`          | No       | Yes                 | Yes                    |
| Both `true` / `false`            | No       | No                  | No (skill is dead)     |

### Execution Context

The `context` field controls where a skill runs:

| Value       | Behavior                                                                                                          |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| _(default)_ | Runs **inline** in the current conversation — the skill content is injected into the active context               |
| `fork`      | Runs in an **isolated subagent** — no access to conversation history; skill content becomes the subagent's prompt |

When `context: fork` is set, the optional `agent` field selects the subagent type:

| `agent` value | Description                                        |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| _(default)_   | `general-purpose` — full read/write tools          |
| `Explore`     | Read-only tools optimized for codebase exploration |
| `Plan`        | Read-only tools for designing implementation plans |
| Custom agent  | Any subagent defined in `.claude/agents/`          |

## References

- [Skills Issues](https://github.com/vercel-labs/skills/issues)
- [Introducing Skills](https://vercel.com/changelog/introducing-skills-the-open-agent-skills-ecosystem)
- [dot-claude](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/dot-claude)
- [dot-agents](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/dot-agents)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: add installation warning to README
- Warn users to customize skills for their setup
- Add debug output to justfile sync recipe

README.md, after:

# Agent Skills

PRB's collection of AI agent skills. Designed to work across agents, but primarily built for [Claude Code](https://claude.com/product/claude-code) and [Codex](https://github.com/openai/codex).

> [!WARNING]
> These skills are optimized for my personal setup and workflow. If you install them, do your own due diligence and customize them to fit your stack and agents. No warranties, guarantees, or support are provided — use at your own risk.

## Installation

```sh
npx skills add PaulRBerg/agent-skills
```

## Skills

| Skill           | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| biome-js        | BiomeJS linting/formatting guidance      |
| bump-release    | Release workflow with changelog, tagging |
| code-polish     | Combined simplification and review       |
| code-review     | Expert code review                       |
| cli-gh          | GitHub CLI operations                    |
| cli-just        | Just command runner guidance             |
| cli-sentry      | Sentry CLI issue management              |
| code-simplify   | Code simplification and refactoring      |
| commit          | Git commit with conventional commits     |
| delayed-command | Wait and execute bash command            |
| ls-lint         | Directory/filename linting               |
| md-docs         | Markdown documentation management        |
| bump-deps       | Node.js dependency updates               |
| openclaw        | OpenClaw CLI guidance                    |
| oracle-codex    | Codex oracle for planning                |
| oss             | OSS contribution workflows               |
| refine-prompt   | LLM prompt optimization                  |
| work            | End-to-end task implementation           |

## SKILL.md Frontmatter Guide

> [!NOTE]
> Full reference: [Claude Code Skills docs](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills)

### Invocation Control

These fields control who can invoke a skill — the user, Claude, or both:

| Field                      | Type      | Default | Effect                                                                            | Use when…                                                                        |
| -------------------------- | --------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user-invocable`           | `boolean` | `true`  | Controls visibility in the `/` slash-command menu                                 | Set to `false` for background-knowledge skills Claude should auto-load silently  |
| `disable-model-invocation` | `boolean` | `false` | Prevents Claude from auto-loading the skill; removes its description from context | Set to `true` for side-effect workflows you trigger manually (deploy, commit, …) |

Combined behavior:

| Frontmatter                      | `/` menu | Claude auto-invokes | Description in context |
| -------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------- | ---------------------- |
| _(defaults)_                     | Yes      | Yes                 | Yes                    |
| `disable-model-invocation: true` | Yes      | No                  | No                     |
| `user-invocable: false`          | No       | Yes                 | Yes                    |
| Both `true` / `false`            | No       | No                  | No (skill is dead)     |

### Execution Context

The `context` field controls where a skill runs:

| Value       | Behavior                                                                                                          |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| _(default)_ | Runs **inline** in the current conversation — the skill content is injected into the active context               |
| `fork`      | Runs in an **isolated subagent** — no access to conversation history; skill content becomes the subagent's prompt |

When `context: fork` is set, the optional `agent` field selects the subagent type:

| `agent` value | Description                                        |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| _(default)_   | `general-purpose` — full read/write tools          |
| `Explore`     | Read-only tools optimized for codebase exploration |
| `Plan`        | Read-only tools for designing implementation plans |
| Custom agent  | Any subagent defined in `.claude/agents/`          |

## References

- [Skills Issues](https://github.com/vercel-labs/skills/issues)
- [Introducing Skills](https://vercel.com/changelog/introducing-skills-the-open-agent-skills-ecosystem)
- [dot-claude](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/dot-claude)
- [dot-agents](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/dot-agents)

## License

MIT
