skills/cli-cast/SKILL.md, before:

---
disable-model-invocation: false
name: cli-cast
user-invocable: false
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "send a transaction", "call a contract", "sign a message", "use cast", "cast send", "cast call", "cast wallet", "decode calldata", "encode ABI", "check balance", or mentions Foundry cast CLI, RPC endpoints, or on-chain interactions.
---

# Foundry Cast CLI

## Overview

Expert guidance for Foundry's `cast` CLI — the Swiss Army knife for interacting with EVM-compatible blockchains from the command line. Use this skill for signing transactions, sending them to chain RPCs, reading on-chain state, encoding/decoding ABI data, and managing wallets.

**Key capabilities:**

- Send transactions and call contracts via RPC
- Sign messages and typed data
- Encode and decode ABI calldata
- Query balances, transaction receipts, and block data
- Resolve ENS names and addresses
- Manage keystores and wallet operations

## RPC Configuration

All on-chain commands require an RPC endpoint. Use RouteMesh as the default RPC provider.

**URL pattern:**

```
https://lb.routeme.sh/{CHAIN_ID}/{ROUTEMESH_API_KEY}
```

**Construct the RPC URL** by looking up the chain ID from `references/chains.md` and reading the `ROUTEMESH_API_KEY` environment variable.

**Before running any on-chain command**, verify that `ROUTEMESH_API_KEY` is set:

```bash
if [[ -z "$ROUTEMESH_API_KEY" ]]; then
  echo "Error: ROUTEMESH_API_KEY is not set"
  exit 1
fi
```

**Example usage with a chain ID:**

```bash
# Ethereum Mainnet (chain ID 1)
cast call "$CONTRACT" "balanceOf(address)" "$ADDR" \
  --rpc-url "https://lb.routeme.sh/1/$ROUTEMESH_API_KEY"

# Arbitrum (chain ID 42161)
cast send "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "https://lb.routeme.sh/42161/$ROUTEMESH_API_KEY" \
  --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"
```

## Signing & Key Management

Cast supports multiple signing methods. Choose based on the security context.

### Private Key (dev/testing only)

```bash
cast send "$CONTRACT" "approve(address,uint256)" "$SPENDER" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"
```

### Keystore Account (recommended for persistent keys)

```bash
# Import a private key into a keystore
cast wallet import my-account --interactive

# Use the keystore account
cast send "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --account my-account
```

### Hardware Wallet

```bash
# Ledger
cast send "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --ledger
```

## Core Commands

### Send Transactions

Use `cast send` to submit state-changing transactions on-chain.

```bash
# Send ETH
cast send "$TO" --value 1ether \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"

# Call a contract function
cast send "$CONTRACT" "approve(address,uint256)" "$SPENDER" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"

# With gas parameters
cast send "$CONTRACT" "mint(uint256)" 100 \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY" \
  --gas-limit 200000 \
  --gas-price 20gwei
```

### Read Contract State

Use `cast call` for read-only calls that do not submit transactions.

```bash
# Read a single value
cast call "$CONTRACT" "totalSupply()(uint256)" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Read with arguments
cast call "$CONTRACT" "balanceOf(address)(uint256)" "$ADDR" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Read multiple return values
cast call "$CONTRACT" "getReserves()(uint112,uint112,uint32)" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

### Build Raw Transactions

Use `cast mktx` to create a signed raw transaction without broadcasting it.

```bash
cast mktx "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"
```

### Inspect Transactions

```bash
# View transaction details
cast tx "$TX_HASH" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# View transaction receipt
cast receipt "$TX_HASH" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Get specific receipt fields
cast receipt "$TX_HASH" status --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
cast receipt "$TX_HASH" gasUsed --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

## ABI Utilities

### Encode Calldata

```bash
# Encode a function call
cast calldata "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT"

# ABI-encode arguments (without function selector)
cast abi-encode "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT"
```

### Decode Calldata

```bash
# Decode calldata with a known signature
cast decode-calldata "transfer(address,uint256)" "$CALLDATA"

# Decode ABI-encoded data (without selector)
cast abi-decode "balanceOf(address)(uint256)" "$DATA"
```

### Function Signatures

```bash
# Get the 4-byte selector for a function
cast sig "transfer(address,uint256)"

# Get the event topic hash
cast sig-event "Transfer(address,address,uint256)"
```

## Wallet & ENS

### Wallet Operations

```bash
# Generate a new wallet
cast wallet new

# Get address from private key
cast wallet address --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"

# List keystore accounts
cast wallet list

# Sign a message
cast wallet sign "Hello, world!" --private-key "$PRIVATE_KEY"
```

### ENS Resolution

```bash
# Resolve ENS name to address
cast resolve-name "vitalik.eth" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Reverse lookup: address to ENS name
cast lookup-address "$ADDR" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

### Balance Queries

```bash
# Get ETH balance
cast balance "$ADDR" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Get balance in ether (human-readable)
cast balance "$ADDR" --ether --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

## Chain Resolution

When the user specifies a chain by name, resolve the chain ID using these steps:

1. **Check `references/chains.md` first** — it contains the 25 most commonly used chains
2. **If the chain is not listed**, web search for the correct chain ID on chainlist.org
3. **Construct the RPC URL** using the resolved chain ID and RouteMesh pattern

## Quick Reference

| Operation    | Command                | Key Flags                               |
| ------------ | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Send tx      | `cast send`            | `--rpc-url`, `--private-key`, `--value` |
| Read state   | `cast call`            | `--rpc-url`, `--block`                  |
| View tx      | `cast tx`              | `--rpc-url`, `--json`                   |
| View receipt | `cast receipt`         | `--rpc-url`, `--json`                   |
| Build tx     | `cast mktx`            | `--rpc-url`, `--private-key`            |
| Encode call  | `cast calldata`        | (function sig + args)                   |
| Decode call  | `cast decode-calldata` | (function sig + data)                   |
| ABI encode   | `cast abi-encode`      | (function sig + args)                   |
| ABI decode   | `cast abi-decode`      | (function sig + data)                   |
| Function sig | `cast sig`             | (function signature string)             |
| Balance      | `cast balance`         | `--rpc-url`, `--ether`                  |
| ENS resolve  | `cast resolve-name`    | `--rpc-url`                             |
| New wallet   | `cast wallet new`      | —                                       |
| Sign message | `cast wallet sign`     | `--private-key`, `--account`            |

## Additional Resources

- **[Chain Reference](references/chains.md)** — Chain names and IDs for RouteMesh RPC URL construction
- **Foundry Book**: https://book.getfoundry.sh/reference/cast/

Commit message:

feat(cli-cast): use ETH_PRIVATE_KEY env var as default signing key
- Add resolution rule: read ETH_PRIVATE_KEY from env, prompt user if unset
- Update all examples from $PRIVATE_KEY to $ETH_PRIVATE_KEY

skills/cli-cast/SKILL.md, after:

---
disable-model-invocation: false
name: cli-cast
user-invocable: false
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "send a transaction", "call a contract", "sign a message", "use cast", "cast send", "cast call", "cast wallet", "decode calldata", "encode ABI", "check balance", or mentions Foundry cast CLI, RPC endpoints, or on-chain interactions.
---

# Foundry Cast CLI

## Overview

Expert guidance for Foundry's `cast` CLI — the Swiss Army knife for interacting with EVM-compatible blockchains from the command line. Use this skill for signing transactions, sending them to chain RPCs, reading on-chain state, encoding/decoding ABI data, and managing wallets.

**Key capabilities:**

- Send transactions and call contracts via RPC
- Sign messages and typed data
- Encode and decode ABI calldata
- Query balances, transaction receipts, and block data
- Resolve ENS names and addresses
- Manage keystores and wallet operations

## RPC Configuration

All on-chain commands require an RPC endpoint. Use RouteMesh as the default RPC provider.

**URL pattern:**

```
https://lb.routeme.sh/{CHAIN_ID}/{ROUTEMESH_API_KEY}
```

**Construct the RPC URL** by looking up the chain ID from `references/chains.md` and reading the `ROUTEMESH_API_KEY` environment variable.

**Before running any on-chain command**, verify that `ROUTEMESH_API_KEY` is set:

```bash
if [[ -z "$ROUTEMESH_API_KEY" ]]; then
  echo "Error: ROUTEMESH_API_KEY is not set"
  exit 1
fi
```

**Example usage with a chain ID:**

```bash
# Ethereum Mainnet (chain ID 1)
cast call "$CONTRACT" "balanceOf(address)" "$ADDR" \
  --rpc-url "https://lb.routeme.sh/1/$ROUTEMESH_API_KEY"

# Arbitrum (chain ID 42161)
cast send "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "https://lb.routeme.sh/42161/$ROUTEMESH_API_KEY" \
  --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"
```

## Signing & Key Management

Cast supports multiple signing methods. Choose based on the security context.

**Default private key:** Read `ETH_PRIVATE_KEY` from the environment. If the variable is unset and the task requires signing (e.g., `cast send`, `cast mktx`, `cast wallet sign`), **stop and inform the user** that no private key was found, then ask them to either:

1. Export `ETH_PRIVATE_KEY` in their shell, or
2. Provide a private key or keystore account for this session

### Private Key (dev/testing only)

```bash
cast send "$CONTRACT" "approve(address,uint256)" "$SPENDER" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"
```

### Keystore Account (recommended for persistent keys)

```bash
# Import a private key into a keystore
cast wallet import my-account --interactive

# Use the keystore account
cast send "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --account my-account
```

### Hardware Wallet

```bash
# Ledger
cast send "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --ledger
```

## Core Commands

### Send Transactions

Use `cast send` to submit state-changing transactions on-chain.

```bash
# Send ETH
cast send "$TO" --value 1ether \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"

# Call a contract function
cast send "$CONTRACT" "approve(address,uint256)" "$SPENDER" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"

# With gas parameters
cast send "$CONTRACT" "mint(uint256)" 100 \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY" \
  --gas-limit 200000 \
  --gas-price 20gwei
```

### Read Contract State

Use `cast call` for read-only calls that do not submit transactions.

```bash
# Read a single value
cast call "$CONTRACT" "totalSupply()(uint256)" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Read with arguments
cast call "$CONTRACT" "balanceOf(address)(uint256)" "$ADDR" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Read multiple return values
cast call "$CONTRACT" "getReserves()(uint112,uint112,uint32)" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

### Build Raw Transactions

Use `cast mktx` to create a signed raw transaction without broadcasting it.

```bash
cast mktx "$CONTRACT" "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT" \
  --rpc-url "$RPC_URL" \
  --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"
```

### Inspect Transactions

```bash
# View transaction details
cast tx "$TX_HASH" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# View transaction receipt
cast receipt "$TX_HASH" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Get specific receipt fields
cast receipt "$TX_HASH" status --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
cast receipt "$TX_HASH" gasUsed --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

## ABI Utilities

### Encode Calldata

```bash
# Encode a function call
cast calldata "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT"

# ABI-encode arguments (without function selector)
cast abi-encode "transfer(address,uint256)" "$TO" "$AMOUNT"
```

### Decode Calldata

```bash
# Decode calldata with a known signature
cast decode-calldata "transfer(address,uint256)" "$CALLDATA"

# Decode ABI-encoded data (without selector)
cast abi-decode "balanceOf(address)(uint256)" "$DATA"
```

### Function Signatures

```bash
# Get the 4-byte selector for a function
cast sig "transfer(address,uint256)"

# Get the event topic hash
cast sig-event "Transfer(address,address,uint256)"
```

## Wallet & ENS

### Wallet Operations

```bash
# Generate a new wallet
cast wallet new

# Get address from private key
cast wallet address --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"

# List keystore accounts
cast wallet list

# Sign a message
cast wallet sign "Hello, world!" --private-key "$ETH_PRIVATE_KEY"
```

### ENS Resolution

```bash
# Resolve ENS name to address
cast resolve-name "vitalik.eth" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Reverse lookup: address to ENS name
cast lookup-address "$ADDR" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

### Balance Queries

```bash
# Get ETH balance
cast balance "$ADDR" --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"

# Get balance in ether (human-readable)
cast balance "$ADDR" --ether --rpc-url "$RPC_URL"
```

## Chain Resolution

When the user specifies a chain by name, resolve the chain ID using these steps:

1. **Check `references/chains.md` first** — it contains the 25 most commonly used chains
2. **If the chain is not listed**, web search for the correct chain ID on chainlist.org
3. **Construct the RPC URL** using the resolved chain ID and RouteMesh pattern

## Quick Reference

| Operation    | Command                | Key Flags                               |
| ------------ | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Send tx      | `cast send`            | `--rpc-url`, `--private-key`, `--value` |
| Read state   | `cast call`            | `--rpc-url`, `--block`                  |
| View tx      | `cast tx`              | `--rpc-url`, `--json`                   |
| View receipt | `cast receipt`         | `--rpc-url`, `--json`                   |
| Build tx     | `cast mktx`            | `--rpc-url`, `--private-key`            |
| Encode call  | `cast calldata`        | (function sig + args)                   |
| Decode call  | `cast decode-calldata` | (function sig + data)                   |
| ABI encode   | `cast abi-encode`      | (function sig + args)                   |
| ABI decode   | `cast abi-decode`      | (function sig + data)                   |
| Function sig | `cast sig`             | (function signature string)             |
| Balance      | `cast balance`         | `--rpc-url`, `--ether`                  |
| ENS resolve  | `cast resolve-name`    | `--rpc-url`                             |
| New wallet   | `cast wallet new`      | —                                       |
| Sign message | `cast wallet sign`     | `--private-key`, `--account`            |

## Additional Resources

- **[Chain Reference](references/chains.md)** — Chain names and IDs for RouteMesh RPC URL construction
- **Foundry Book**: https://book.getfoundry.sh/reference/cast/
